note online meeting fMP4 ingest 5th of february, 2018, 18:00 central european time (GMT +!)

chairing/notes: Rufael Mekuria 

Attendants:
James Wardle (Harmonic UK)
Alan Robinson (BBC)
Nikos (MediaExcel)
Kevin Johns (century link)
Kevin Moore (Elemental)
Rufael Mekuria (Unified Streaming)
Valentijn Sibrands (Unified Streaming)
Dirk Griffioen (Unified Streaming)
David Franklin (Comcast)
Matt Poole (ITV)

agenda approval
OK, agenda approved

Agenda:
- review of action points established in the last call
  AP1 -> Nikos will have a look , Kevin Johns will have a look aswell / feedback on text in readme.md, remains open
  AP2 -> Discussion on standards body postponed to later in the call 
  AP3 -> completed -> Kevin Johns proposes additional topics per section -> discussed later in the call
  AP4 -> completed (closed) 
  
- review of restructuring of the requirements, additional requirements
  discussion took place on the restructuring of the requirements after the explanation in categories by unified streaming
  discussion led to the following updated requirements
  - requirements updated to support encrypted content ingestion
  - requirements updated to support secure connections in the ingest protocol, contribution source needs to be secure (requirement from BBC)
  - requirements updated to support ingest of captions 
  - discussion on the detailed technologies used in the requirements, removed specific technology choices like HTTP POST etc these should be left open 
  - discussion on the detailed technology supported, these can be made specific e.g. support HEVC, WebVTT etc.
  AP1: work on the requirements to make it consistent in this regard (leaving out technology choices, making clear what media ingest
  needs to carry) (Rufael)
  
- review of IPR process and standardization body 
   - discussion on the standardization proces
       draft IETF for progress discussed, not a lot of support so far, different options like SVA, DASH-IF, MPEG will be considered later when work advances
   - standardization body for work -> SVA, DASH-IF, MPEG, IETF , postponed topic closed for now
   - IPR policy  1. innovation  -> century link needs clear situation on IPR, others are ok with IPR situation as this is not a 
                  "crown jewel technology" (this is mostly an interop for industry following best practices), work will move forward
                   on discussing issues encountered with this technology and defining specification for interop purpose
                 2. software   -> no time to discuss this postponed to a later call
   
- updated draft specification review and approval
      -> DASH ingest discussed as alternative, adding manifest will help in several cases, github issue made by Will, support for this 
            by elemental, harmonic, mediaexcel.  Unified Streaming sees some issues with this that need to be clarified.
            AP3: Kevin Johns to propose additional sections in draft spec
            AP4: Unified to articulate the issues identified with DASH ingest in practice
- requirements on reference software (if agreed upon) -> discussion postponed to next call
- next call 
   next call will be scheduled in two weeks from now, possible at the same date, the doodle poll will be sent out (AP5)
