note online meeting fMP4 ingest

chairing/notes: Rufael Mekuria 

Attendants:
James Wardle (Harmonic UK)
Will Law (Akamai)
Alan Robinson (BBC)
Nikos (MediaExcel)
Prasanna (Akamai)
Alex de Jonge (Harmonic)
Kevin Johns (Level 3)
Kevin Moore (Elemental)
Olaf Nielsen (Elemental)
John Saxton (Elemental)
Rufael Mekuria (Unified Streaming)

1. discussion of agenda, approved 
2. round call (see participants list)
3. scope/overview: presentation of input contribution to MPEG 120 to illustrate the scope of a fragmented media ingest specification, including the technical requirements, and how this fits in the current MPEG NBMP framework and some 
 discussion: Nikos requests a clear separation from the benefits/goals and the exact technologies used, i.e. requirements vs proposol, why vs how, also for marketing reasons 
             and convincing stakeholders it will be good to have a clear message of the "why" i.e. the benefits of this work. From a technical perspective, latency, sync points accross multiple 
             outputs /inputs, high availability, redundancy etc will all be important features.
             AP 1 (Rufael): prepare some text in this regard (there is a draft spec, but a clear marketing/convincing why message) would be useful 
             Will Law: discussion on IP and standardization framework. Is the Idea to propose to MPEG NBMP ? How do we settle the IPR issues.  AOM and ETSI are mentioned, some mentions of Apple joining the Alliance for Open Media
             Rufael: MPEG is just one option, still the major body in anything media related with the best and largest track record and global reach, DASH IF, ETSI, IETF AOM would be other options. Regarding IPR issues, we anticipate                      that we will not do significant innovation in this specification, 
                     we will just follow current industry best practice and draft a specification around that, this should not result in any significant IP being developed. Some consensus as Harmonic, Elemental and  Mediaexcel
                     Media Excel feel this way too. Nikos, Rufael, James and Kevin moore mention that not much IP will be expected as the spec will mainly piggyback on existing technologies,  
             Rufael: perhaps involvement on multiple fronts may help 
             Kevin Johns: this is not really efficient, typically you would work in an industry forum that then pushes their outputs to a standards body (agreed)
             Will Law: voting on this issue of selecting a standards might be needed
             Rufael: Is chosing a standards body/industry forum a showstopper ? Can we not continue the technical discussions ?  consensus: to move on and we can do some work (Elemental, MediaExcel,Harmonic,Unified Streaming,Akamai)
             AP 2 (Rufael): prepare a way to vote for the standards body/industry forum, a proposal on how to handle this
             Consensus: standardization has value to this work, not having chosen a path on this does not stop doing this work and improving interop between different products.
4. discussion of the current draft specification 
     1. Elemental proposes that in section 6 one track per long running post should be chosen as the normative option (Unified Streaming agrees on this)
     2. Elemental request to have the spec written in github markdown format bullet such that it can be edited via pull request, agreed, Rufael was already anticipating this
          AP 3 (Rufael) prepare the specification in a github markdown format 
5. Hour has passed, discussion will continue in next call, many people need to go for another call 
          AP 4: Rufael to distribute the notes and prepare the next call  
             
Presentation Slides MPEG 120

Nikos: technology, encapsulation of payloads and options, MPEG DASH, HEVC, MPEG H, AV1  <--> standardization , high availability, restart handover, 
latency aspect, sync point across multiple outputs <--> technology related aspects separate the why and the how
- why 
Will Law: Intellectual property ETSI, AOM, MPEG
discussion on innovation versus state of art: piggy back on existing standardization  -> Nikos (No IP, piggy back on existing kevin moore)
Kevin Moore AP:
Rufael: double standards, industry forum, that does not produce standards

AWS: one track in seperate stream
 
Kevin: Industry forum, relation to an SDO standardization
Will Law: normative referenced standard, DASH-IF industry guidelines, ETSI
Voting: video standards yes
AP1: why / how 
AP2: voting for the standards body
Harmonic: this is trivial standard we can continue without discussing the IPR issues extensively (consensus)

AP3: flat text of the ingest spec github markdown format bullet, normed lists, pull request
